# Mathematical signal and image processing library

This **m**athematical **s**ignal and **i**mage **p**rocessing **lib**rary (msiplib) implements functions and methods useful for processing with signals and images, like denoising and segmentation. The tools are developed in the group of Prof. Benjamin Berkels at AICES, RWTH Aachen University.

In particular, this package contains implementations of the methods proposed in
the papers:

[1] Jan-Christopher Cohrs, Chandrajit Bajaj and Benjamin Berkels. A distribution-dependent Mumford-Shah model for unsupervised hyperspectral image segmentation. *IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing*, 60:1--21, December 2022, Art no. 5545121. [[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1109/TGRS.2022.3227061) | [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.15058)]

[2] Amel Shamseldeen Ali Alhassan, Siyuan Zhang and Benjamin Berkels. Direct motif extraction from high resolution crystalline STEM images, Ultramicroscopy, [[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ultramic.2023.113827) | [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.07438)]

[3] Setareh Medghalchi, Ehsan Karimi, Sang-Hyeok Lee, Benjamin Berkels, Ulrich Kerzel and Sandra Korte-Kerzel. Three-Dimensional Damage Characterisation in Dual Phase Steel Using Deep Learning. *Materials & Design*, 232:112108, 2023. [[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matdes.2023.112108) | [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.05869)]

We appreciate any feedback on your experience with our methods. We would also appreciate if you cite the above mentioned papers when you use the software in your work. In case you encounter any problems when using this software, please do not hesitate to contact us: <berkels@aices.rwth-aachen.de>

## Installation
The code can be made importable by creating a local copy of it and installing it as a package with

```
$ conda develop <local path to repo>
```
or
```
$ pip install <local path to repo>
```
In addition, a yaml-file is provided to directly create a conda environment containing the necessary packages to run the code. In order to create such an environment, please run
```
$ conda env create -f env-msiplib.yml
```
from the root directory of the repository. This will also automatically install `msiplib` as a package in the created environment.

## Usage
Examples of simple segmentation `MS.py` and denoising code for grayscale and RGB images `ROF.py` can be found in `examples`, as well as the examples for crystallographic data extraction described in paper [2].
A script with examples running the methods for unsupervised hyperspectral image segmentation published in [1] can be found in `tools/hsi_segmentation`.
A script to get the atom postions inside the unit cell of a crystalline image following the method in paper [2] is given in `tools/get_motif_atoms.py`. An example for the parameter file for the script is given in `tools/get_motif_atoms.yaml`.
A script for the affine registration of image series used in [3] is `tools/match_series.py`, an example parameter file is `tools/match_series.yaml`.

## Documentation
A documentation can be automatically generated by following the steps described in `docs/README`.
